Allow an Author to decline opening a PR and request review on the issue (#475)
aunger/gallery-button-for-pixel-camera: agents/pr_participation.md

  The Orchestrator runs the CI Monitor script after you exit; you do not need to poll.
- **Do not return before posting your review.** Posting your review is the only valid exit condition. After forming your verdict, call the review-submission tool before stopping.

>   Review pattern (this is the PR-path mechanism; when the Author opened no PR, post on the issue instead, per "Reviewing an Author who declined to open a PR" below):

Author: ```suggestion
  Review pattern:
  
  (This is the PR-path mechanism. If the Author opened no PR, see "Reviewing an Author who declined to open a PR" below.)
```

  There is no middle option.
  If you want any change made before merge, request changes so the full review cycle continues.

### Reviewing an Author who declined to open a PR

Sometimes the Author opens no PR and instead requests a review on an **issue comment** (see "Declining to open a PR" in the Author section).
The artifact under review is then that issue comment and the Author's stated position, not a diff.
The Orchestrator will point you at the issue rather than a PR.

Because there is no PR, post your review as an ordinary comment on the **issue** (begin it with the `🤖 Reviewer` line), not via the PR review tool.
Your verdict vocabulary is unchanged: `LGTM` or `Changes requested`.
Choose among three stances and map each to a verdict:

- **Agree and approve.** You are convinced the Author is right that no PR is warranted (the issue needs no code change, cannot be fixed, or should not be acted upon).
  Say so plainly and emit `LGTM`.

>   An `LGTM` here means the issue is resolved without a code change; there is nothing to merge, and the Orchestrator closes the loop (see `dev_orchestration.md`).

Author: ```suggestion
  An `LGTM` here means the issue is resolved without a code change; there is nothing to merge.
```

- **Point out a blocking flaw.** You accept the Author's general direction but find a flaw in its reasoning or in the out-of-repo action it proposed (for example, the suggested setting is wrong, or the answer it gave is incomplete).
  Explain the flaw fully and emit `Changes requested` so the Author revises its issue comment or its proposed action.

> - **Fundamentally disagree.** You believe the Author is wrong and that a code change *is* required (or that the issue is valid and must be acted upon).

Author: ```suggestion
- **Fundamentally disagree.** You believe the Author is wrong, the issue is valid, and a change is required and possible.
```

- The Author should reply to Reviewer comments to provide justification for refusing a Reviewer's requested changes.
- When a Reviewer requests a change that is out of scope for the current PR, the Author should decline to make it here, file a new issue to track it, and cite the issue number in their reply to the Reviewer.

### Declining to open a PR

An Author is not obligated to open a PR.
In any of the following three circumstances, the Author should *not* open a PR:

1. Addressing the issue does not require a code change.
2. The Author believes it cannot fix the issue.

> 3. The Author believes the issue is flawed, invalid, or otherwise should not be acted upon.

Author: ```suggestion
3. The issue is flawed, invalid, or otherwise should not be acted upon.
```

When declining to open a PR, the Author must:

- Post a comment on the **issue** (not on a PR, since none exists) that explains its position.
  Begin the comment with the `🤖 Author` attribution line, then state which of the three circumstances applies and the reasoning behind it.

>   If circumstance 1 applies and the issue is resolved by an action outside the repo (for example, a setting change) or by an answer (for example, a question the issue was really asking), describe that action or give that answer in the comment.

Author: ```suggestion
  If circumstance 1 applies and the issue is resolved by an action outside the repo (for example, a setting change) or by an answer (for example, the issue is really asking a question), describe that action or give that answer in the comment.
```

> - Inform the Orchestrator that it is requesting a review on the **issue comment** instead of on a PR, so the Orchestrator dispatches a Reviewer pointed at the issue (see the decision-signal vocabulary in `dev_orchestration.md`).

Author: Reword so the Author doesn’t need to request a review, as mentioned in another comment.

This no-PR path changes only the artifact under review; the rest of the review cycle is unchanged.
The Reviewer still renders an `LGTM` or `Changes requested` verdict (see the Reviewer section), and the Author still defends its position or revises it across rounds.

### Changing position

An Author may change its position between rounds, in either direction:

> - An Author that opened a PR may, on reflection or after a review, conclude that no code change is warranted (circumstance 1) or that the issue should not be acted upon (circumstance 3).

Author: ```suggestion
- An Author that opened a PR may, after a review, conclude that no code change is warranted or that the issue should not be acted upon.
```

  In that case it should close its PR and switch to the declining-to-open-a-PR path above, explaining the change on the issue.

> - An Author that declined to open a PR may, after a Reviewer points out a blocking flaw or insists that code is needed, become convinced and switch to authoring a PR.

Author: ```suggestion
- An Author that declined to open a PR may later become convinced and switch to authoring a PR.
```
